#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrlttr2
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subject
Evaluation of the master's thesis 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Complexity of Equivalence Proofs of Simple Deterministic Grammars
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Name
Cezary Kaliszyk
\end_layout

\begin_layout SenderAddress
Computational Logic Group
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Technikerstraße 21a
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

A-6020 Innsbruck
\end_layout

\begin_layout Address
Interdisziplinärer Frankreich-Schwerpunkt der Universität Innsbruck
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Herzog-Friedrich-Straße 3
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

A-6020 Innsbruck
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
To whom it may concern,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have known Michael Färber since 2012, when he started working on a master
 seminar topic with me.
 During his final year, Michael has been granted an Erasmus scholarship
 to visit the University of Bordeaux.
 There he established a collaboration with Prof.
 Géraud Sénizergues and started a jointly supervised research on equivalence
 proofs of simple deterministic grammars, that later became the main topic
 of his thesis.
 The solution to the problem is of practical use: If you are able to model
 a computer program as simple deterministic grammar, you can decide properties
 such as equivalence with other programs, which is important to verify the
 security of protocols, or to find out whether an optimised version of a
 program performs the same task.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The equivalence problem has been studied in Bordeaux theoretically already
 for some time and the research has been awarded a Gödel price in 2002;
 while the Innsbruck group specialized in proof assistant based formalized
 proofs.
 This gave Michael the idea to combine the the two directions and define
 formally an algorithm that can be defined and proved correct in a formal
 proof assistant.
 Michael defined a proof system for equivalence proofs and developed a computer
 program that can find and generate such proofs automatically.
 He then investigated the proof assistant Isabelle/HOL and its formal specificat
ion of the algorithm.
 The higher-order logic formalization of an algorithm allows to certify
 the correctness of the algorithms and ensure its termination.
 Michael has proven both formally in the course of his thesis.
 The results of the thesis were also presented at the FREC workshop at Île
 de Ré.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I therefore recommend Michael Färber for the Frankreich-Preis 2014.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
Sincerely,
\end_layout

\begin_layout EndLetter

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
